README.md, before:

Flutter Engine
==============
[![Build Status](https://api.cirrus-ci.com/github/flutter/engine.svg)](https://cirrus-ci.com/github/flutter/engine)

Flutter is a new way to build high-performance, cross-platform mobile apps.
Flutter is optimized for today's, and tomorrow's, mobile devices. We are
focused on low-latency input and high frame rates on Android and iOS.

The Flutter Engine is a portable runtime for hosting
[Flutter](https://flutter.io) applications.  It implements Flutter's core
libraries, including animation and graphics, file and network I/O,
accessibility support, plugin architecture, and a Dart runtime and compile
toolchain. Most developers will interact with Flutter via the [Flutter
Framework](https://github.com/flutter/flutter), which provides a modern,
reactive framework, and a rich set of platform, layout and foundation widgets.


_Flutter is still under development and we continue to add 
features._ However, it is ready for use by early adopters who are willing to deal
with the odd wrinkle or two along the way.  We hope you try it out and send
us [feedback](mailto:flutter-dev@googlegroups.com).

 - For information about using Flutter to build apps, please see
   the [getting started guide](https://flutter.io/getting-started/).

 - For information about contributing to the Flutter framework, please see
   [the main Flutter repository](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

 - For information about contributing code to the engine itself, please see
   [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).
   
 - For information about the engine's architecture, please see
   [the wiki](https://github.com/flutter/engine/wiki).

Community
---------

Join us in our [Gitter chat room](https://gitter.im/flutter/flutter) or join our mailing list,
[flutter-dev@googlegroups.com](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/flutter-dev).

Commit message:

Update the contributing guide (#6754)
Content has moved to the wiki.

README.md, after:

Flutter Engine
==============
[![Build Status](https://api.cirrus-ci.com/github/flutter/engine.svg)](https://cirrus-ci.com/github/flutter/engine)

Flutter is a new way to build high-performance, cross-platform mobile apps.
Flutter is optimized for today's, and tomorrow's, mobile devices. We are
focused on low-latency input and high frame rates on Android and iOS.

The Flutter Engine is a portable runtime for hosting
[Flutter](https://flutter.io) applications.  It implements Flutter's core
libraries, including animation and graphics, file and network I/O,
accessibility support, plugin architecture, and a Dart runtime and compile
toolchain. Most developers will interact with Flutter via the [Flutter
Framework](https://github.com/flutter/flutter), which provides a modern,
reactive framework, and a rich set of platform, layout and foundation widgets.

If you are new to Flutter, then you will find more general information
on the Flutter project, including tutorials and samples, on our Web
site at [flutter.io](https://flutter.io). For specific information
about Flutter's APIs, consider our API reference which can be found at
the [docs.flutter.io](https://docs.flutter.io/).

If you intend to contribute to Flutter, welcome! You are encouraged to
start with [our contributor
guide](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md),
which helps onboard new team members.
